---
page_title: "Resource: metabase_user"
subcategory: "Users"
description: |-
      Allows for creating and managing users in Metabase.
---

# Resource: metabase_user

Allows for creating and managing users in Metabase.

## Example Usage

### Standard user

```terraform
resource "metabase_user" "example" {
  email      = "email@example.com"
  first_name = "Example"
  last_name  = "User"
  group_ids  = [3, 4]
}
```

### Superuser

```terraform
resource "metabase_user" "example" {
  email        = "email@example.com"
  first_name   = "Example"
  last_name    = "User"
  is_superuser = true
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `email` (String) The email address of the user.

### Optional

- `first_name` (String) The first name of the user.
- `group_ids` (List of Number) The IDs of the user groups the user is a member of. The 'All Users' group is automatically added by Metabase and you can use `is_superuser` to add the user to the 'Administrators' group.
- `is_superuser` (Boolean) Whether the user is a member of the built-in Admin group.
- `last_name` (String) The last name of the user.
- `locale` (String) The locale the user has configured for themselves. The site default is used if this is nil.

### Read-Only

- `common_name` (String) The user's common name, which is a combination of their first and last names.
- `date_joined` (String) The timestamp of when the user was created.
- `first_login` (String) The timestamp of when the user first logged into Metabase.
- `google_auth` (Boolean) Whether the user was created via Google SSO. Note, if this is enabled then username/password log-in will not be possible.
- `has_invited_second_user` (Boolean)
- `has_question_and_dashboard` (Boolean)
- `id` (Number) The ID of the user.
- `is_active` (Boolean) Used to indicate whether a user is active or if they've been deleted.
- `is_installer` (Boolean)
- `is_qbnewb` (Boolean) If false then the user has been introduced to how the Query Builder works.
- `last_login` (String) The timestamp of the user's most recent login to Metabase.
- `ldap_auth` (Boolean) Whether the user was created via LDAP. Note, if this is enabled then username/password log-in will not be possible.
- `updated_at` (String) The timestamp of when the user was last updated.

## Import

You can import existing users using the ID:

```shell
$ terraform import metabase_user.example 1
```
